But we have been working with Jehovah's Witnesses for 30 years now and have progressively
grown together through this experience.
Jehovah's Witnesses have led us to be extremely cautious with the use of blood, through good
patient preparation, careful selection of the patient, careful management in the operating
room with all the available blood conservation methods and correcting anemia prior to surgery.
This has resulted, and I have to say, of course, thanks to a relationship that has become
stronger over the years, it has resulted in a committee within this hospital entrusted
with limiting the use of blood, even for those who are not bound by these restrictions.
So it has been a beneficial process that has also led to a global reduction in the use
of blood, which we know is harmful and can lead to complications such as those associated
with recovery, as well as avoidable costs.
If anemia is a factor, we treat it beforehand with all the pharmaceutical means we have
available to correct it.
We have a comedian Verona for the best use of blood that recommends all these procedures
which we also apply to patients who are not Jehovah's Witnesses.
This is a beneficial process that your presence has allowed us to make.
With this type of preparation, we can address even complex cases of pancreatic resection,
liver resections.
We do resections of liver tumors, resections of pancreatic tumors, and we can do these
with reasonable, reasonable risks and so perform them safely.
When gastrointestinal oncology, we have come from a rate of 50% of patients transfused
to 15%.
So there has been a notable reduction in the use of blood because we have, on the one
hand, applied more careful surgical techniques and on the other, used all the tools available
to us for an efficient hemostasis.